Add quality guidelines (#46)
flathub/documentation: docs/02-for-app-authors/03-appdata-guidelines/01-quality-guidelines.md

# Quality guidelines

For the quick guidelines for the actual content (descriptions, screenshots), see the Appstream [docs](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/appstream/docs/chap-Quickstart.html).

The following guidelines are optional, but recommended. We will likely promote apps that follow them in certain places.

## General

### No trademark violations

> Your app must not violate any trademarks. This includes the name, icon, and summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your app must not violate any trademarks. This includes the name, icon, and summary. For example, if your app is a Telegram client or web wrapper, it should not be called "Telegram for Linux" or use the official Telegram icon. Instead, it should have its own identity (e.g. "Paper Plane", with a custom icon). If it's made clear that it's a third party client it can be ok to mention the original service (e.g. "Tally for Plausible"), but in most cases it should be avoided.
```

### Managed by app author

We recommend to verify your app on Flathub, but it’s not required.

## App Icon

### Icon size

> The icon must be at least 256x256px and be in PNG or SVG format.

Reviewer 2: minimum to pass the checks is 128x128

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The icon should be at least 256x256px and be in PNG or SVG format. The minimum accepted size on flathub is 128x128.
```

Reviewer: This isn't very clear, it's either SVG (in which case the size doesn't matter) or PNG (in which case we want >256+).

```suggestion
The icon must be SVG, or a PNG with a size greater or equal to 256x256px.
```

> minimum to pass the checks is 128x128

This page isn't about passing the check, it's about high quality app listings (for which there's a higher bar).

Reviewer 2: yeah but then it is confusing and you get submission where the review get second guessed by imprecise documentation.

Reviewer: These rules are not for Flathub review, but only for high quality app listings. We should probably explain that somewhere on the page, but not sure we want to repeat all the minimum requirements for being allowed on Flathub at all on this page as well.

Reviewer 2: pieces of information spread out all across the internet are what make things harder for contributors. A GOOD documentation do not hesitate to repeat important information. This is the flathub documentation for submissions so this is really relevant.

Author: > This page isn't about passing the check, it's about high quality app listings (for which there's a higher bar).

For now, I think in the long run, this will extend to general (e.g. not only listing) quality

Author: Realistically, if we want to mention the minimum size, we should link to the place where it's documented - otherwise, we need to update stuff in too many places.

### Icon ratio

> The icon shouldn't fill less than 90% of the canvas or touch the edges.

Reviewer 2: it must be square (appstream check this), even in SVG.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The icon shouldn't fill less than 90% of the canvas or touch the edges. The icon must be square, including in SVG.
```

Reviewer: This needs a bit more detail, and I'm not sure the precise 90% figure is helpful here.

```suggestion
The icon shouldn't fill too much or too little of the canvas. Avoid filling the entire canvas and having the icon touch the edges of the canvas (except with small protruding elements). Similarly, avoid thin shapes that are hard to see.
```

Author: I'll take @bertob version and will add that it has to be square to the `Icon size` part.

Reviewer: Looks like this wasn't addressed and just merged as-is? I definitely wouldn't include 90% figure, and the sentence needs more nuance to be useful IMO.

Author: Yeah, missed it, as this was set to resolved by me for whatever reason? Probably due to a push.

### Good contrast

> The icon should have good contrast on dark and light backgrounds.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icon should have good contrast on dark and light backgrounds. In particular, avoid single-color glyphs and the like since they can be very hard to see if the background color is similar. Dark colors near the edges are also a problem, since shadows don't help much with contrast on dark backgrounds.
```

### Not too much detail

The icon should be recognizable at small sizes.

### No baked-in shadows

> The icon should not have any baked-in shadows or glows.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icon should not have any baked-in shadows or glows. Both the Flathub website and native stores apply a shadow to all icons, so baked-in shadows result in double shadows or other glitches.
```

# Quality guidelines

For the quick guidelines for the actual content (descriptions, screenshots), see the Appstream [docs](https://www.freedesktop.org/software/appstream/docs/chap-Quickstart.html).

The following guidelines are optional, but recommended. We will likely promote apps that follow them in certain places.

## General

### No trademark violations

Your app should not violate any trademarks. This includes the name, icon, and summary.

For example, if your app is a Telegram client or web wrapper, it should not be called `Telegram for Linux` or use the official Telegram icon. Instead, it should have its own identity (e.g. `Paper Plane`, with a custom icon). If it's made clear that it's a third party client it can be ok to mention the original service (e.g. `Tally for Plausible`), but in most cases it should be avoided.

:::tip
If you're not sure if your app violates any trademarks, feel free to ask us on [Matrix](https://matrix.to/#/#flathub:matrix.org).
:::

### Managed by app author

> We recommend to verify your app on Flathub, but it’s not required.

Reviewer: Is there a reason not to require this here? Most good apps are already verified, and it'd be an incentive for those that aren't yet :)

Author: That was just me trying to come up with a draft and Copilot getting carried away...

## App Icon

### Icon size

The icon should be SVG, or a PNG with a size greater or equal to 256x256px. It has to be square.

### Icon ratio

The icon shouldn't fill less than 90% of the canvas or touch the edges.

### Good contrast

The icon should have good contrast on dark and light backgrounds. In particular, avoid single-color glyphs and the like since they can be very hard to see if the background color is similar. Dark colors near the edges are also a problem, since shadows don't help much with contrast on dark backgrounds.

### Not too much detail

> The icon should be recognizable at small sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icon should be recognizable at small sizes. Avoid too many tiny details, small text, and generally try and match other well-executed app icons in terms of complexity.
```

### No baked-in shadows

The icon should not have any baked-in shadows or glows. Both the Flathub website and native stores apply a shadow to all icons, so baked-in shadows result in double shadows or other glitches.

> ### In line with style

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### In line with contemporary styles
```

Author: Wondering, if there is an easier word for this.

Reviewer: It's tough. Don't want to use "ugly", but that's what it's basically a proxy for :D

> The icon should be in line with the contemporary icon style.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The icon should be somewhat in line with the contemporary icon styles. The [GNOME](https://developer.gnome.org/hig/guidelines/app-icons.html) and [KDE ](https://develop.kde.org/hig/style/icons/colorful/application/) app icon guidelines are examples of the kind of style your icon should align with.
```

## App Name

### Not too long

> The name should be shorter then 20 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name should ideally be no longer than 15 characters, and must be shorter than 20 characters.
```

Author: We should probably have some kind of legend what `must` and `should` mean in this context

### Just the name

> The name should be just the name, without any additional info.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name should be just the name, without any additional info. For example, don't append what the app does (e.g. "Apostrophe - Markdown Editor"), and use the summary to provide this extra information instead.
```

### No weird formatting

The name should not have any weird formatting or punctuation.

## Summary

### Not too long

> The summary should be shorter then 50 characters.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The summary should ideally be no longer than 35 characters, and must be shorter than 50 characters.
```

> The name should not have any weird formatting or punctuation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The name should not have any weird formatting or punctuation. For example, it should not be all-lowercase, all-uppercase, camel case, or contain dashes or periods.
```

Author: I can't agree on `all-lowercase`, as somebody working at a company that has a stylized lowercase name and we usually also extend that style to our (internal) apps.

Reviewer: It's one thing when it's part of a brand, but usually it's just a mistake:

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/1908896/9ae1d4c3-3db5-4c43-87d3-15272e878589)

Practically speaking do you have examples of apps where you think lowercase is appropriate?

Author: https://flathub.org/apps/collection/popular/1 actually has multiple examples

I've included some camel case and uppercase too

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/f0e55660-506e-4905-b427-b32577506f8e)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/cc26d694-a33c-4666-a8ad-bbc7132bb3dc)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/f2a19f32-a23c-4d24-8d7f-6348114aeb94)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/7afc18e5-f5f3-4a32-8e71-d4e7e9ae76aa)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/f503a683-9a79-4758-91c1-6ea4b01c7038)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/bdf857af-d9a9-4098-821d-56f2651df13b)

![image](https://github.com/flathub/documentation/assets/5943908/691ff2dc-cc9a-4749-a98c-3f45fd27f3cf)

Reviewer: Hmm yeah, fair enough. I guess we could make an exception for cases where it's part of the brand?
```suggestion
The name should not have any weird formatting or punctuation. For example, it should not be all-lowercase, all-uppercase, camel case, or contain dashes or periods. Cases where the weird formatting is part of the brand are exempt from this (e.g. "VLC").
```

Author: Yeah, I would be fine with that, but it might be abused - which we can see about then.

### Not technical

> The summary should be understandable by a non-technical person, and not contain any technical terms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The summary should be understandable by a non-technical person, and not contain any technical terms (e.g. "Chat app written in Rust and GTK4/Libadwaita"). Don't mention the toolkit, programming language, or other implementation details that would not be relevant to a non-developer and explain what the app does for people instead.
```
